Git and Github

 

There are more software’s like Apache and Piper but we use Git and Github because 99% companies use this.
Git tracks the changes that you made in your code.
SCM – source control management
VCS – version control system
On CMD –
git - check if git is installed
git -v – check git version
git cheat sheet - https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf

Setup –
 
Why do we setup?
So, every time we made a change in our code, git tracks who made the changes and that is why we need to set the global config.

dir : lists all directories
cd dir-name : change directory
mkdir : makes directory

starting –

git-init – initializes the git in the current directory
Initialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/SONY/Desktop/Coding/git-course/.git/ // output example
As soon as you git init; now U is marked in front of the file
U means – it is untracked ; project is git enabled but untracked
 
A hidden folder will get created named as .git and all the tracking is saved in this folder
Start Tracking –
git add file-name– enable tracking your file
 
Now the symbol changes to A that means additions are tracked
When you save the symbol changes to M
 
git diff – tells what changes are made
 
git add . – to add all files of current folder
git rm file-name – removes the files that from tracking

Commits –
 
So when we start making changes in our code and when we finish making the changes we do commit.
We do following –
git add . – to add all files
git -m commit “Initial Commit” – to commit
 

git log –
 
If we do more changes
Do git add . and then git commit -m “commit name”, then  git log to check all commits

git log –oneline – create the short id for commit
 
git show id – shows what changes are made in that commit
git blame file-name – to check which user made what changes 

Staging Area –

git status – if you modify a file it will tell that file is modified
When we make changes to a file we need to move them to staging area.
git add “file-path” – this move the file to staging area
git commit -m “commit-name” – the file that you moved to staging area only that will be commit

Reverting Back Commits –

All the commits are stores as nodes in a linked list and the head always points to the latest node.
git reset –hard “commit-id” – head will move to the given commit id
If you want to revert some changes that you made earlier in any commit –
git revert “commit-id” – It will revert the changes made in the given commit 
git commit -m “revert” – It will make a new commit with the latest changes made in revert and move head to this node.

Collaboration with Git and Github –
 
Github is central server for git.
GitLab and BitBucket are some examples of central servers.

Adding your code on Github –
Create a repository
git remote add origin “link-of -your-github-repo” – link your local machine git folder to the github repo
git push -u origin main – push your current code to github 
 
Generating private and public SSH keys –
 
These keys are generated so that it will authenticate the user who is pushing the code.
To generate a ssh key locally
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C your_email@example.com
Copy the public key to your github account

git push -f - If you revert back to any previous commit we need to push forcefully


Branching in git (Very Very Important) –

While working on collaborative environment we should never work on the main branch 
Create a new branch like below -

When the user finishes the work all the changes of branch get commit in a single commit to main
 
How to make the branch –
git branch – to check the current branch
git branch “branch-name” – create a new branch
git checkout “branch-name” – to switch to new branch

git push --set-upstream origin “branch-name” – to push 

Merging the branch with main Using Cli -
git checkout main
git merge origin/branch-name

Merging on Github Using Pull request –

Create a pull request
Maintainer will merge –
git pull – on to pull all new changes
git checkout -b “branch-name” – create a new branch and switch

Branching name convention –
git branch “feat/add-chat-support” – means that it’s a feature and we are adding chat support 
git branch “bug/login-not-working” - fixing a bug

Rebasing –
Merger the branch with the head of main branch
Create a new branch and make several commits
git rebase branch-name
 
